you
okay folks this lesson right here this
lesson out of every lesson I've ever
taught this is the most important one
unfortunately many times it's viewed by
developing traders as the most boring
topic but you need to understand sound
money management and I'm going to give
you a perspective on money management
techniques that I view is one of the
best
okay ready tackling money management and
the topics vary in covering in this
module
is system accuracy important
I don't believe system accuracy is all
that important I believe that a
relatively low accuracy rate could still
be profitable and I'll give you an
example that in this specific module but
I want you to understand that a lot of
new traders developing traders and
traders that have been unprofitable for
a while
tend to believe that it's their system
and the lack of high accuracy that is
what prevents them from seeing a
positive outcome and that's not it but
it really isn't it it's the losses that
erode by the means of drawdown every
losing trader every busted account
starts with a single loss and it
compounds and what generally happens is
traders will lose their mind because
they are not disciplined they don't have
a procedure or protocol in place to deal
with a losing trade or a series of
losing trades so I think that system
accuracy is kind of like a misnomer
certainly there's nothing wrong with an
accuracy that's high but it also goes
along with just because it's been
accurate a certain number of times in
the past is in no way shape or form a
promise or guarantee that that system is
going to deliver the same going forward
it could fall apart it could have you
know Lord knows how many losing trades
I've had systems and developed all kinds
of methods over my last twenty five
years and some of them look great on
paper but soon as you try to plug them
in to live markets and walk forward with
them they didn't hold up and they were
all based on TradeStation systems and I
was trying to cut you back in the 90s
with the bond in the S&P market but if
you are on the fence about having the
dependency on system accuracy and we're
finding it terribly important I don't
think it's something that you should
lose sleep over
all right so how much equity should be
risked well I don't believe there's a
cookie cutter approach to this everyone
and I have done this in the past uses a
standard 2% as a maximum and truth be
told when you know what I'm trading I've
risked as much as three and a half
percent and sometimes when I was really
being a cowboy I was risking as much as
five and seven percent they were more or
less just working towards accelerated
growth and also testing what I was able
to do as a trader but generally my risk
appetite is about one percent one half
if I really want to push it everything
they're really good
I'll go as high as 3% generally it's
about as high as I'll go so I think the
question really is a matter of personal
choice and preference what I'm willing
to assume as risk percent may not be as
welcome as a percentage for risk for
some view for some of you 1% may be
extremely too high for others it may not
be high enough so everyone's gonna have
their version or comfort zone for risk
and I don't want to be the type of
mentor that tells you this is how much
you should risk because I teach in a
demo account so I think that it's
reasonable to assume 1% or less as a
risk parameter for your demo account but
I would never tell you what you should
do with your live account because it's
gonna be all dependent on what you're
willing to assume is risk what you can
tolerate you know some of you if you put
a trade on even in a demo account you'll
lose your mind over it because it's just
can't you can't deal with the
uncertainty and there's really no money
on a line it's just that you're so keyed
up about being right and that's gonna
translate into problems with your money
management because if you need to be
right
you're not going to trade profitably
should traders always push their edge I
see this a lot online and it's one that
gets under my
skin because again gets back to the
first question is system accuracy
important I don't believe that a trader
should always get in there and push
their edge because no matter how good
you are how good your system is it's
going to incur a loss and you don't know
if it's gonna be a single loss or it's
going to be a series of losses and it
could be a string of losses that you
were not expecting and at some point
you're going to need to pull the plug
and say okay I can't trade anymore this
day or this week or even this month if
it's really bad
the problem with pushing your edges
you're always going to have a reason or
excuse to do so so I have over the years
built in kind of like a a breaker for my
activity and thresholds because if I do
not see a turnaround in my losing trades
or a string of losses I can very easily
wipe out on account just as well as
anyone else can so it has to be some
kind of a measure in place that helps me
throttle back when I'm active and when
I'm going to resume again so while I'm
not gonna be talking about that so much
I do talk about that new mentorship and
I do go into great detail with money
management and specifics with trading
plans that will be taught in 2019 but
the members should have gone through the
entire core content but for this
teaching I want you to focus on the
importance of sound money management and
risk control
what causes traders to blow out I
personally believe it's their inability
to weather a series of losses now anyone
can take a loss or two and it doesn't
really make anyone go crazy about it but
what happens is is if there's a
back-to-back consecutive five six seven
maybe even ten losing trades in a row as
a developing trader that's normal you
know if you're trying to avoid that
you're actually hurting and stunting
your growth as a developing trader so
you want to be able to experience that
phenomenon of being convinced almost
that your trades gonna work out but then
see it not come to fruition and then
having to wrestle with that because the
internal dialogue that takes place in
your mind the emotions that well up
after that you need to wrangle them
because they're going to always be there
as a trader now you either can make them
allies or you can view them as enemies
okay they're always gonna be plaguing
your your results and certainly plaguing
your your clarity or perspective on the
marketplace and you don't want to give
them that power
okay fear and greed they can be dealt
with but it has to be with a process and
a clear developed plan so
every trader bloser account with a
series of losing trades but it starts
with one losing trade it always starts
with one and what goes on between your
ears okay inside your mind is what
manifests in your account now if you
take the loss and you think to yourself
well that didn't work out next and
that's your mentality but you don't
think next I'm gonna get it back right
now and on the over-leveraged and go
through the martingale procedure if you
just took a loss of 100 bucks now you're
gonna risk 200 bucks when they ain't
gonna risk 400 bucks now you know risk
800 bucks that doesn't work
eventually you're busted so I've looked
at all kinds of money management
approaches I've studied Ralph Vince and
Ryan Jones work which i think is
exceptional work it's really hard to
read it's rather dry but if you can
tolerate those types of things it really
stimulates the ideas that are
potentially there for gaming theory and
the Kelly principle and Optimo F so if
we can see there are measures of
controlling risk and money management
approaches in gaming okay and for
instance like blackjack or roulette
which I admittedly have never been to a
casino to play either one of those but I
did study the games and I did study
gaming theory and I've always been
fascinated with the world poker
championships and I've always been
fascinated to see the same faces
generally make it to the last table or
so and I don't believe it's the cards
that they're winning with I believe it's
they know when to push their money and
when to cut it back and if you watch
them play I watched that part of it I
don't watch the what they're doing with
their hands because they have no idea
what the next cards are going to be but
they do know how much they're going to
risk from the pot
perspective if you will how much are you
gonna ante up and I've always been
fascinated with that so I've kind of
like used those ideas from professional
gamblers okay and use some of their
approaches and applied it to a money
management strategy which I think you'll
find rather interesting in this teaching
the takeaway is I'm going to teach you
how to flatline equity draw down
all right have a flatlined equity
drawdown all right so when we start
trading obviously we're all excited that
what we're going to potentially see as a
result you know you open your demo
account up you want to start seeing that
increase or that that jump up in the
demo equity that builds your confidence
to eventually at some point in the
future when you make the decision to do
if you ever do it to trade with live
funds you'll be able to have the
experience that look back on as a demo
trader and see that you've done certain
things over a consistent length of time
where it warrants by your own decision
in your own timing you elect to go with
live fund trading I never tell anybody
when to do that and I'm certainly not
advocating to use live funds with the
information I'm sharing here this is
just informational purposes only and
everything I teach it should be viewed
in light of a demo account application
only but if you're practicing with a
demo account you have how do we practice
money management approaches well we're
going to go into that now obviously as I
mentioned already the every trader is
gonna have to encounter a losing trade
that's a new trader especially if you
start with live funds you're trying to
avoid dis like the plague and Jan
generally it's a good idea to try not to
lose money but you can't avoid it it's
going to happen it's absolute you're
going to run into a brick wall and money
will be withdrawn from your account
whether demo or eventually if you ever
decide to do it live funds will come at
your account and it's guaranteed you
need to be able to have a frame of mind
and a procedure on how you're going to
encounter and engage and overcome that
obstacle equally so every trader will
experience a series of losing trades now
this is where that wave of emotion comes
in and you feel regretful you wish you
wouldn't have done certain things and
then certain emotions will trigger a
response that may result in anger you
may lash out at your computer will ask
out your friends and co-workers or your
family your spouse or children your dog
don't do that the
procedures that you need to have in
place is what you're going to do -
number one control the bleeding okay
you have to slow the bleeding whether it
be a live account or a demo account said
stop losing money slow it down and then
eventually look to mitigate it but you
can't come back from massive losses if
you don't first identify what you're
doing wrong and stop doing that very
thing
which is over leveraging or keeping risk
at a constant
now professional money management
concepts are used by the informed
speculators that can help keep their
equity base smooth
all right so we have here a hypothetical
random
result of 20 trades and these are not
actual trades it is hypothetical for the
purpose of giving an illustration here
it's all of the illustrations here are
hypothetical but they will give you a
comic a perspective to consider and it's
important for you to take these as
general rules of thumb go through using
a demo account using these applications
and you see what you get from in terms
of experience but the outcome with these
20 trades here for this particular
trader we'll call it the trader a the
trader starts with a $5000 account and
using a three to one reward the risk
model they're willing to hold on to a
trade three times what they're willing
to take as an initial risk or stop-loss
and they're using an aggressive start
that means they're going right in using
2% risk right from the start and they
show no regard for future losing streaks
the
typical equity this is what you may have
encountered with your demo account you
first started treating you start seeing
a little bit of a drawdown you know
something you get lucky with something
that starts to pop up in the equity line
starts to increase and it always feels
good and then all of a sudden starts to
drop down in here and it's this part of
the movement in your equity line this is
what causes the freakout movement
because when it's a little bit of
drawdown it's not that they would deal
but when it starts to be consistently
pointing lower our minds don't like to
see that okay we like to see Italy
increasing okay and what will happen is
you're going to want to do things more
frequently trade with larger leverage
and
do more than you should traded times
when you shouldn't be trading this less
active times in a 24-hour time of the
market day you don't want to be doing
those types of things but invariably
this line okay is the biggest indicator
okay
it makes traders do more things than any
other and it's not an oscillator even
though it does oscillate many times it
just goes to oversold and most traders
in terms of their equity dropping but I
think that this line or this cumulative
line of our equity drives more traders
to do the wrong thing than anything else
we could put on our chart
and I don't believe that indicators
should be used on charts but I think
everything that you would put on your
chart as an oscillator is safer than
worrying about this line
okay everyone that has the ability to
see what their equity line is or an
equity curve as a developing trader this
is the least important thing
okay there's so many rules that you've
got to apply before you would ever get
any kind of information or feedback loop
from this information because you don't
know what you're doing there's no system
or procedure or progress that way you're
just starting so the worst thing you can
do is look at your equity curve and base
that on whether or not you're doing well
enough because initially you could have
luck and many times and you've probably
done this open a demo account and done a
couple different things over leveraging
and you think that this was a skill that
caused that and when it was just a
coincidence and coincidences sometimes
happen in the marketplace so what we're
going to do is we're gonna look at how
we can engage trading and you sound
money management concepts to help
weather the storm through losing streaks
you
I said here's a model that's three to
one they were holding the trade are
willing to hold the trade three times
longer in terms of what they were
willing to take as at risk or a stop and
they had a soft start here that means
they didn't go right in at 2% or the
maximum risk that would be permissible
and this trader shows a regard for
future losses and I'll explain that in a
minute and the trader does drop to the
lowest unit of leverage after five
consecutive wins now what does that mean
in this little spreadsheet here this com
Dylan eats what the trade idea is gonna
be and this is assuming that you get a
full stop at 20 pips or full target at
60 pips now obviously these are
best-case scenarios and worst-case
scenarios just gonna be a askew and the
results obviously but from a practical
standpoint for illustrative purposes
we're using this as a means of providing
the illustration the set number here is
how many times you have five winning
consecutive trades when you have five
winning consecutive trades as we have
here one winning trade two winning
trades three 4/5 winning trade you have
to drop down to your smallest unit of
leverage okay so he starts with 25k or
$2 could you sense a perp it works up to
a maximum 60 K and then after that five
consecutive winning he drops back down
to his lowest one by doing that this
trader is actually preparing themselves
for the future loss or losing streak so
this gets back to should the trader
always push their edge no because you
will always push yourself right into
drawdown and most traders not everyone
but most traders
have an issue with drawdown they will
lose their mind as soon as they start
suffering draw them for a series of
losing trades they start panicking they
start freaking out and what's even more
amusing is they feel these symptoms in a
demo account which is it's odd but it's
true so maybe some of you have
experienced that you know you you want
control and you can't control price as
soon as you put the order in whether
it's a demo or live account you've
submitted to the marketplace whether you
like to admit that or not and the
markets going to do what it's going to
do and you have absolutely no control
over it whatsoever your control is
limited to what you have in terms of
where your stop-loss is or how long you
stay in a trade without being stopped
that's it so we can control the things
that are directly related to us but we
can't control price so we have to have
some kind of a shield so my threshold is
five winning trades so I have a
beginning unit leverage of more it's not
25k but for the sake of argument we'll
just say it's 25k that's my lowest
starting point okay two hours and fifty
cents per pip and I'm going to stay with
that okay until I can get above my
equity starting point which happens here
beginning balance is five thousand when
it gets back about five thousand then I
can start jumping I'll go up to the next
unit leverage which is doubling to 25k
to 50k so now it's five dollars per pip
I'm risking
if this is a winning trade I can start
now
utilizing the 2% rule as a maximum
leverage so 2% of 5350 brings us to 53 K
or 5 dollars and 30 cents per pip if 60
pips is hauled off that trade that's
$318 and this would go on I would keep
adding all the way up to the 5th trade
at that moment if I take a win on this
trade my next trade does not go to
percent of this equity balance it drops
back down to 25 K and then this is what
it's meant to do and eventually you're
gonna get a losing trade and now you
don't have as much leverage on there and
what that does is it flatlines your
equity drawdown see in here we have
initial drawdown but we are starting
with our lowest level of our leverage
unit now we can go lower than this but
I'm just using this as this model the
lowest one we'll go to is 25k and we'll
stay there until we can come out of that
drawdown this period here is this
drawdown here very modest very low then
it comes out we have some growth which
is seen through here but the fifth trade
that's aware I want to be getting out of
that cycle and preparing for a measure
of drawdown or a potential losing trade
the worst thing you can do is keep
building out your leverage and risking
the trade and then taking that biggest
loss because your biggest loss is gonna
come so I plan and schedule and if you
want to call it this I forecast the next
losing series of trades and to help
weather that I build in five winning
trades once I have five laying trades I
can not up my leverage I have to drop
back down to my lowest one and what that
does is it will Plateau
to draw them so I'll go up get equity
growth and then I know what's coming and
if I don't get a loss it doesn't matter
because it's still not going to show a
whole lot of movement in here and it
creates a real nice stair-stepping
approach to my equity curve I don't see
a whole lot of peaks and valleys I don't
see you know the ski slope or the you
the landslide if you will that sometimes
plagues traders equity curves what I do
is I want to protect what's been made in
terms of gains and there's no better
feeling or empowerment knowing that by
doing something like this it's such a
simple thing but it takes discipline to
do it see it feels good when you're
making money you're trading and it's in
that little voice in your heads gonna
say keep pushing it keep pushing your
edge up your leverage you're on a hot
streak and usually about then that's
when you're losing trades are gonna come
and they don't come just singular
they'll come in a wave and if you don't
compensate for that you can go through a
large degree of drawdown and it's
nothing fun about that at all
so with this approach contrasting with
the previous trader the drawdown is less
with this trader because they have five
winning trades and they cut their
leverage to the lowest unit of leverage
to anticipate future losing trades
results in three hundred forty six
dollars more of preserved gains so
there's a benefit even though we've used
random numbers here the benefit is the
equity curve is preserved and it's
starting to plateau versus going up and
then starting to go back down that's
what you don't want to do you want to
control how much it drops the best way
you can do that is forecast and schedule
drawdown you don't know when they're
coming just like you don't know when and
what's the next winning trade is either
but we can plan for and whether drawdown
and we're losing streaks by doing this
now if there ever is a losing trade the
equity
protected also by dropping down to the
lowest increment or unit of leverage
okay so here is another model where the
trader starts with 25k so it's a modest
start to the start - 25k winner the next
trade goes to 50k then from there a
standard 2% risk model is used on the
equity and three-to-one reward risk is
the idea behind this the trader is
willing to hold four moves that are
three times what the initial stop-loss
is and this trader shows a regard for
losing streaks and what that means is
when the trader has been making money
and takes a loss here that trigger drops
down to its lowest leverage unit 25k
happens the winner
so he bumps up to the next one 50k takes
a loss it has to drop back down to the
lowest one and stays there
okay until you get so a win right here
now as long as he's above his beginning
balance he can ante up to 50k if he was
below 5,000 in here he had to stay at
25k until he got above 5,000 dollars or
whatever the equity balance starts with
here winning trade takes him to 50k and
standard 2% rule applies
and then a losing trade comes then drops
back down to 25k which is the lowest
unit of leverage and the same procedure
starts again 2% model after 50k leverage
is used and keep doing that now what
happens here on the fifth winning trade
because have one two three four five
winning trades the very next trade he's
not going to or she's not going to use
this type of leverage here or higher
they'll drop back down to 25k because
there's been five consecutive winning
trades and you're on an equity high here
so you want to plan for drawdown so you
get a wave of wins plan for a drawdown a
wave of wins plan for drawdown a wave of
wins and now you're gonna equity high if
you've ever studied your equity curve
whenever it looks like this this is
where you want to send it on Twitter
okay this is where you want to put it on
Facebook because it looks great and it's
almost like magic soon as you do that
you know what happens boom if you don't
know what you're doing the equity just
falls off a cliff okay so the way we
avoid that and control it is I've built
in procedures where after five winning
trades okay that completes a complete
win set cycle for me okay
so the wind set cycle once this goes
through five wins okay then I would be
on cycle or set number two okay but wind
sets are what we have here in individual
trades that are consecutive but winning
trade that's one a second winning trade
it's two three four five on the fifth
one drop back to the lowest increment
unit for leverage okay and you're going
to determine what those are I don't want
to give you anything here except for
just stimulate the ideas you can use
these as general rule of thumb and play
with them see what you get in terms of
results we're going to look at some
things that help build a management
model that'll help with this equity
curve idea and also I'll give you some
examples of how you can accelerate it
and still keep drawl down at a minimum
all right so this is an example of what
not to do okay and we're gonna see the
effects of using a trading approach that
either is by way of a new trader seeing
very marginal gains and being excited or
scared to hold on to it and closing at
20 pips but willing to suffer as much as
40 pips per trade so we have a reversal
if you will of the reward to risk
they're only allowing themselves to make
20 pips but holding on to losers much
longer than they should and they're
averaging around 40 pips so with a 1 to
2 reward the risk model and 20 to 40
pips respectively this trader is using 2
percent risk but look what happens with
this approach we can see that the
drawdown takes us below the starting
equity so we have starting equity
drawdown which is never fun it's not
that bad when you're losing open paper
profits in other words profits that you
have not taken home and pay the income
tax on those those are little easier to
take us draw down on it's not fun but
it's better to take those than it is
losing what you put into the market
place yourself so we suffer starting
equity drawdown at this point here and
goes down to the degree of 6.7% of
starting equity so this is not fun we
don't want to see this so seeing
drawdown below the starting equity
balance not good so we're gonna look at
how we could use a money management
approach using this reversed
reward the risk model so in other words
we're only allowing ourselves to make 20
pips but suffering a loss of 40 pips
we're going to see the effects of doing
something like that next again risk is
twice the potential reward here you want
to avoid this
okay so now we have a model using the
money management approach
you see Singh losses in the same
location using 20 pips as their gain and
40 pips they're assuming in terms of
drawdown or being stopped out at 40 pips
when the trader takes a loss it drops
down to its lowest leverage unit which
is 5 K then 5 K drops down to 10 I'm
sorry moves up to 10 K after a win then
another loss comes and then drops down
the 5k and stays there for every loss
when it makes money but we're below the
equity balance beginning point which is
$5,000 so they have to stay at their
lowest unit once we get back to the
5,000 then we can start adding
and then we go to 15k which is a dollar
fifty per hip a loss is suffered they
move right back down to the lowest
leveraged unit which is 5k and we have a
series of winning trades after this five
winning trades they would have to go
back down to the 5k again to lock in or
preserve the gained equity which isn't
much it's only one hundred and sixteen
dollars from starting equity but you
have to do these types of things to keep
your open profits in your account
basically you want to allow the drawdown
to erode those profits now looking at
this you can see the effects of it is
marginal because the improvement isn't
not that appealing even though we were
able to get back above the $5,000
starting balance we dip down below it
twice and then we see this so even with
this drawdown being recouped this is not
encouraging at all because you're still
using a model that is going to make it
difficult for the effects of sound money
management to do its magic
okay so now we're looking at a model
where the trader has a one-to-one reward
the risk model that means the trade is
going to be taking 20 pips or 20 pips
risk and 2% risk and no money management
is plot here okay so when the losses
suffered as we see here we have series
of losses this trader sticks to the 2%
rule whatever the previous ending
balance is 2% of that like that by 20
pips
that's the leverage they'll use and 5
losing trades in a row nothing changed
in terms of money management it just
stated or static 2% not good you can see
that we had the initial run up and then
we have a nice drop down okay a riveting
all those gains and now below starting
equity balance okay so we have now
starting balance draw them not fun even
though it comes out and has a gain of
12% this to me is still not good because
we're not we're not handling the law
says we're not dealing with that
so we don't know if the losing streets
gonna end at 5 losing trades it could
continue on to 8 maybe even 12 and who
knows the emotional impact and
psychological impact of losing trade
after trade a trade on this particular
trader it may cause them to go in and
over leverage even more or take trades
that are not as valid based on their
rules or procedures so we don't want to
go below that opening equity balance if
we can avoid it that's what we're going
to try to do and now we're going to take
a look at this same model here
using reward to risk being equal again
2% risk leverage does never cut the
flatline the drawdown on this example
but now we're gonna take a look at an
another trader same scenario same losing
trades exactly where they would be but
this time the trader goes from using two
percent risk we take a loss they drop
down to 10k or one dollar per pip that's
their low-end lowest leverage unit so
they have a winning trade
you got one leverage unit to 20k or two
hours per pip it suffered a loss they
drop back down to 10k which is their
lowest leveraged unit and they stayed
there for every losing trade and then
they make a profit and they can start
bumping up because they're above the
beginning equity balance of $5,000 which
is what we started with on this
particular case study demo there's a
losing trade here they drop back down to
10k one dog for pit and I have five
winning trades the next trade that is
not in this list they would trade back
at one mini which is 10k or $1 for pit
and they would start building that model
again look at the difference between
this equity curve even though it was
relatively the same ending balance but
the drawdown we never went below the
beginning equity balance we stayed above
it the entire time
the reward the risk is again equal with
2% risk the leverage is cut to flatline
to drawdown in this example here and
let's take a look at contrasting opinion
because the results are less drawdown
and more equity not by much but it's a
little bit more but let's look at it
side by side which one of these equity
curves would you rather have
the one on the left is without money
management
and the one on the right is with money
management so we see a much more severe
decline and we go below with what we
started with the $5,000 um so we had
increase in equity same degree but then
the severe drawdown that was seen by
sticking with just a standard 2% risk
expecting every trade to be a winner
like a novice trader or a gambler will
they're always holding out for that next
series of winning streak trades a sound
money manager with their equity they
will see the loss and adjust it quickly
keep losses at a minimum
and then when we start making money then
we can start increasing the leverage and
we take a loss
we keep leverage low again until we take
a win and we can start ramping it up
again but we stopped at five winning
trades now you can increase this to say
7 or 10 winning trades where it'll
really allow your account to grow but
you still have to be aggressive about
when you take that losing trade you have
to go back down to your lowest leverage
unit so all these things are
customizable but I want to take a look
at another example where we can show the
benefits of using this with really good
opportunities
you
okay so we have a opportunity of using
three-to-one reward the risk
five thousand dollars and this is a
beautiful equity curve here
this is what three-to-one reward risk
and flatlining drawdown looks like
after taking a loss and using a soft
start so what we mean by that but we
have $5,000 but we're starting with
$0.50 per pip and going to $1 per pip
then a dollar fifty per pip then back
down after we take a loss to $0.50 per
pip then up to a dollar up to a dollar
fifty then we take a loss back down to
50 cents up to a dollar up to a dollar
50 up to $2 per pip up to two hours and
50 cents per pip and then we're at five
winning trades so I have to drop back
down to 50 cents per pip we take a loss
not a big deal take another loss it's
not a big deal we take a win now we can
start adding back building it up and
then we take a loss at dollar fifty per
pip we drop back down to our lowest end
and look at the look at the benefits of
that now granted we're not making a ton
of money here okay it's not a huge
astronomical amount of money okay but so
you had thirteen winning trades out of
twenty with losing trades sprinkled in
there and a random location just to show
the effects of what it would look like
but still having a series of five
winning trades in a row so you can have
a win set cycle of five winning trades
so you can see the benefits of it and
then we're taking a loss we drop down to
the lowest leverage unit the equity
curve is stunning this is beautiful now
if a trader uses this type of model
three-to-one allowing the trade to be
three times what they're willing to take
as a loss okay in other words they have
a limited amount of pips they will not
let it go beyond 20 pips so the model is
20 pips risked and we're aiming for 60
pips as a day trader you can do this a
couple of times a week now not every day
but you can do it a couple times a week
so if you figure out how many times you
could realistically do that per week
let's just say you do it two times a
week that means about approximately ten
weeks you could see a 12 percent gain on
your account I think that's reasonable I
don't think it's astronomical or too
high end of a objective or goal but if
you're a developing trader there's
certainly nothing wrong with this
now we're gonna take a look at something
that you can do this is a model that
shows same starting balance of $5,000
we're going to be using a slightly
different approach here there is the
reward model is 3 2 1 the leverage is
still 2% with an aggressive start that
means we're starting rate of 2% of
equity on our first trade and after five
consecutive wins our leverage is to be
cut to our lowest leverage unit and we
can see that here we have five winning
trades then we drop back down to the
beginning of 50k or basically $5 per pip
and we take a loss there it's not a big
deal no they lost not a big deal we have
a wind so now we can start adding up to
2% again so we dropped down after five
winning trades and here's the thing
we take a single loss we do not cut our
leverage we're allowing for that 2% rule
to be there you'll see a little bit more
drawdown sometimes on this model here
but the benefits are you'll let your
growth in these five winning trades this
is where you'll gain a lot of ground
okay so when this five winning set of
profitable trades come it really
accelerates and takes you high but you
can change this and you can tailor this
yourself to whatever appetite of risk
you want to assume this is obviously a
contest type model where you're willing
to take a loss once in a while if you
have a really good high hit rate for
what you're trading if you're not
configured a day trader and you know
you're looking for it doesn't mean
you're always right it as a day trader
I'm more apt to be accurate in that
model versus say like I'm trading on a
long term position or a swing trade I
might have to get in that entry point
another time I may get stopped out or I
may not be able to get the leverage I
wanted to put on because it has already
moved and it's changed my risk to reward
model when I first started looking
forward it's changed now it's skewed and
it's a little bit less favorable so to
me day trading is it's perfect and
scalping can be done too if we use the
model of say we do a 10 pip stop with a
30 pip objective intraday you can find
one of those every single trading day if
you know you're looking for and you have
the experience so this same model here
even though we're using 20 pips at risk
and 60 pips it's a game at three to one
model can still be applied to scalping
with 10 pips tops and 30 pip objectives
and you would still get similar results
like here using the same money
management approach
I hope you enjoyed this presentation and
if you'd like to find more you can visit
my website at the inner circle
trader.com